[Doc][KubeRay] verl example (#54114)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/examples/verl-post-training.md

(kuberay-verl)=

> # Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) for LLMs with verl on KubeRay

Author: "human feedback" happens during training the reward model. You can read https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.02155 for more details.

> # Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) for LLMs with verl on KubeRay

Reviewer: Ahh, makes sense. So the human feedback is already built into the model, not active at this stage. Thanks for enlightening me!

> [verl](https://github.com/volcengine/verl) is an open-source framework that provides a flexible, efficient, and production-ready RL training library for large language models (LLMs).

Reviewer: Just confirming: do all the acronyms/abbreviations in this first paragraph common knowledge for all readers? I'm not familiar with some of these terms, but also not as entrenched in this space.

* You can also use the [RayJob CRD](kuberay-rayjob-quickstart) for production use cases.

# Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster with GPUs

Follow the instructions in [Managed Kubernetes services](kuberay-k8s-setup) to create a Kubernetes cluster with GPUs.

This guide uses a Kubernetes cluster with 4 L4 GPUs.

For GKE, you can follow the instructions in [this tutorial](kuberay-gke-gpu-cluster-setup) and use the following command
to create a GPU node pool with 4 L4 GPUs per Kubernetes node:

```bash
gcloud container node-pools create gpu-node-pool \
  --accelerator type=nvidia-l4-vws,count=4 \
  --zone us-west1-b \
  --cluster kuberay-gpu-cluster \
  --num-nodes 1 \
  --min-nodes 0 \
  --max-nodes 1 \
  --enable-autoscaling \
  --machine-type g2-standard-48
```

# Step 2: Install KubeRay operator

Follow the instructions in [KubeRay operator](kuberay-operator-deploy) to install the KubeRay operator.

# Step 3: Create a RayCluster

```sh
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/kuberay/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray-cluster.verl.yaml
```

# Step 4: Install verl in the head Pod

Log in to the head Pod and install verl.

> This step won't be necessary when the verl community supports images with verl pre-installed in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The verl community does not support building images with verl installed.
```

I understand the sentiment here, but try to avoid future state. Wondering if there is an open GitHub issue requesting this functionality you can link to? (Or can we open one?) You could then add something like "Track the request for this functionality [here](#link)."

Author: updated

```sh

> # Log in to the head Pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Log in to the head Pod.
```

export HEAD_POD=$(kubectl get pods --selector=ray.io/node-type=head -o custom-columns=POD:metadata.name --no-headers)
kubectl exec -it $HEAD_POD -- bash

# Follow the instructions in https://verl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/start/install.html#install-from-docker-image to install verl.
git clone https://github.com/volcengine/verl && cd verl
pip3 install -e .[vllm]
```

# Step 5: Prepare the dataset and download `Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct` model

Run the following commands in the head Pod's verl root directory to prepare the dataset and download the `Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct` model.

```sh
# Prepare the dataset.
python3 examples/data_preprocess/gsm8k.py --local_dir ~/data/gsm8k

# Download the `Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct` model.
python3 -c "import transformers; transformers.pipeline('text-generation', model='Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct')"
```

# Step 6: Run a PPO training job

Run the following command to start a PPO training job.
This differs slightly from the instructions in [verl's documentation](https://verl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/start/quickstart.html#step-3-perform-ppo-training-with-the-instruct-model).

> The main differences are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main differences are the following:
```

* Set `save_freq` to -1 to avoid disk pressure caused by checkpointing.

```sh
PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1 python3 -m verl.trainer.main_ppo \
 data.train_files=$HOME/data/gsm8k/train.parquet \
 data.val_files=$HOME/data/gsm8k/test.parquet \
 data.train_batch_size=256 \
 data.max_prompt_length=512 \
 data.max_response_length=256 \
 actor_rollout_ref.model.path=Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct \
 actor_rollout_ref.actor.optim.lr=1e-6 \
 actor_rollout_ref.actor.ppo_mini_batch_size=64 \
 actor_rollout_ref.actor.ppo_micro_batch_size_per_gpu=4 \
 actor_rollout_ref.rollout.log_prob_micro_batch_size_per_gpu=8 \
 actor_rollout_ref.rollout.tensor_model_parallel_size=1 \
 actor_rollout_ref.rollout.gpu_memory_utilization=0.4 \
 actor_rollout_ref.ref.log_prob_micro_batch_size_per_gpu=4 \
 critic.optim.lr=1e-5 \
 critic.model.path=Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct \
 critic.ppo_micro_batch_size_per_gpu=4 \
 algorithm.kl_ctrl.kl_coef=0.001 \
 trainer.logger=['console'] \
 trainer.val_before_train=False \
 trainer.default_hdfs_dir=null \
 trainer.n_gpus_per_node=4 \
 trainer.nnodes=1 \
 trainer.save_freq=-1 \
 trainer.test_freq=10 \
 trainer.total_epochs=15 2>&1 | tee verl_demo.log
```

> This job takes hours to complete. While it's running, you can check the Ray dashboard to see more details about the PPO job and the Ray cluster.

Author: Updated:
1. add a sentence to tell users that they can stop early if they observe the patterns.
2. it's around 5 hours.

  ```
* Answer: `(16 - 3 - 4) * 2 = 18`

You should be able to see the model becomes gradually better at this question after several steps.

In this example run, the model first got the correct answer after 130 steps, and the following is the log.
It may vary depending on the random seed.

```
(TaskRunner pid=21297) [response] First, we calculate the number of eggs Janet's ducks lay in a day. Since there are 16 eggs per day and Janet lays these eggs every day, the number of eggs laid in a day is 16.
(TaskRunner pid=21297)
(TaskRunner pid=21297) Next, we calculate the number of eggs Janet eats in a day. She eats 3 eggs for breakfast and bakes 4 muffins, so the total number of eggs she eats in a day is 3 + 4 = 7.
(TaskRunner pid=21297)
(TaskRunner pid=21297) The number of eggs she sells in a day is the total number of eggs laid minus the number of eggs she eats, which is 16 - 7 = 9 eggs.
(TaskRunner pid=21297)
(TaskRunner pid=21297) She sells each egg for $2, so the total amount she makes every day is 9 * 2 = 18 dollars.
(TaskRunner pid=21297)
(TaskRunner pid=21297) #### 18
(TaskRunner pid=21297) #### 18 dollars
```

# Step 8: Clean up

> 

Reviewer: I note this is only deleting the downloaded yaml. Is there anything else that needs to be removed from the user's environment? Either way, add a sentence to indicate what is/isn't being deleted.

Author: The instructions delete all the Kubernetes resources that the audience needs to remove. The Kubernetes cluster and KubeRay operator are likely managed by other teams rather than the audience. That's why I didn't provide instructions to clean them up.
